# web App Development Internship Of The Spark Foundation

#TASK_6 Testing (Automated)- • Read up about testing • Learn selenium and basic selenium automation scripting • Start with Google Search and read tutorials. Watch videos to learn about various aspects of testing using selenium • Use selenium to create a test case to test the website thesparksfoundation.sg • The test script should check at least 5 pages and 10 elements in total • Each element could be e.g. if the Logo exists, the navigation bar appears, the name on about us page is correct, etc.

~ Testing : Software testing is a way to test whether a real software product meets the expected requirements. The purpose of software testing is to identify errors, gaps or requirements that are not in line with actual requirements. It can be done by two ways i.e. Manual and Automated.

~ Automated testing : Automated testing uses an automated tool to execute the test case instead of a human manually executing the suite by following step-by-step instructions. So the main goal of automation testing services is to reduce the number of test cases that has to run manually instead of eliminating manual testing altogether. Automated testing is pursued not only in the hope of better return of investment but also because it increases the area of test coverage and rules out human intervention and human errors.

~ Selenium : Selenium is an open-source tool that automates web browsers. It provides a single interface that lets you write test scripts in programming languages like Ruby, Java, NodeJS, PHP, Perl, Python, and C#, among others. A browser-driver then executes these scripts on a browser-instance on your device.

~ Selenium WebDriver: Selenium WebDriver is a web framework that permits you to execute cross-browser tests. This tool is used for automating web-based application testing to verify that it performs expectedly. Selenium WebDriver allows you to choose a programming language to create test scripts.

~ Advantages of Selenium: You don’t have to worry about language and framework support as Selenium does that for you! Selenium has become the most reliable web automation tool because of the ease of generating test scripts to validate functionality. You don’t need to rewrite scripts for every browser, just one script for all browsers. You can create Selenium test suites over any platform like Windows and can execute the same test suite on another platform, for example, Mac or Linux. Selenium provides a user-friendly interface that helps create and execute test scripts easily and effectively. Selenium requires less hardware as compared to other testing tools. With the help of Selenium Grid, we can execute multiple tests in parallel, hence reducing the test execution time.
